
# Table of Contents

1.  [My Spring 2022 courses](#org5db5b90)
    1.  [CSC 100 - Introduction to Programming with C/C++](#org8863551)
    2.  [DSC 205 - Introduction to Advanced Data Science](#org444ba0b)
    3.  [CSC 330 - Database Theory and Applications](#org65a5846)
    4.  [CSC 410 - Operating Systems](#org187f071)


<a id="org5db5b90"></a>

# My Spring 2022 courses

**Prerequisites** for all my courses: curiosity, courage, and critical
 thinking. You have to be willing to work on an agile project for
 the duration of the term, and present your progress (or lack
 thereof) frequently.


<a id="org8863551"></a>

## CSC 100 - Introduction to Programming with C/C++

This course introduces you to system programming using C. We cover
C++ as an extension. System programming is pure power: it enables
you to converse with the computer at a level unknown to users of
Python or other high level languages. You also learn about:
compilers, working on the command line, text editors like vi and
Emacs, using C for Internet of Things (IoT) devices,
cybersecurity, and using UML. You get a foundation in
computational, critical thinking in concert with one of the three
most popular languages (the other two are Python and Java).


<a id="org444ba0b"></a>

## DSC 205 - Introduction to Advanced Data Science

For those who took DSC 105, this course continues the journey into
data science using the functional language R. We focus on the art
of machine learning, including: classification models (used
e.g. for spam detection), neural networks (linear models on
steroids) and deep learning, image classification, text mining,
and recommender systems. Assignments will include online exercises
from DataCamp and interactive online Colaboratory notebooks. To
join this course without having completed DSC 105, work through
Norman Matloff's free online course "fasteR:Fast Lane to Learning
R!" on GitHub. However, this is not an R course, but a course on
predictive algorithms and applications.


<a id="org65a5846"></a>

## CSC 330 - Database Theory and Applications

You will learn a fair amount about SQL, the (by far) dominant data
science language in the real world (for relational databases), and
also one of the oldest languages in use. We also work with SQLite,
the world's most common database, and we model databases with UML
and Entity-Relationship diagrams. We cover XML and NoSQL
databases, Big Data, and aspects of physical database
organization. As a capstone, we build our own database
application, accessed with your programming language of choice -
C, C++, Java, Python, R, or whatever.


<a id="org187f071"></a>

## CSC 410 - Operating Systems

Operating systems manage a computers resources for its users and
their applications. We focus on the underlying concepts, look at
examples and try them out - my preferred sandbox being Linux,
which you will be introduced to, including process management and
simple shell programming. We also address concurrency and
parallelization, cloud computing, memory and storage
management. We may use the Raspberry Pi as a platform to try stuff
and get much closer to the machine than PC OS like Windows or
MacOS allow. The lessons will directly lead to you feeling calm
and powerful when working on your computer. A worthwhile
investment!

